Docs: Trace view, jaeger and zipkin (#24297)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/features/datasources/jaeger.md

| _Name_          | The data source name. This is how you refer to the data source in panels, queries, and Explore.                                                 |
| _Default_       | Default data source means that it will be pre-selected for new panels.                                                                         |
| _URL_           | The URL of the Jaeger instance, e.g., `http://localhost:16686`                                                                                   |
| _Access_        | Server (default) = URL needs to be accessible from the Grafana backend/server, Browser = URL needs to be accessible from the browser. |
| _Basic Auth_    | Enable basic authentication to the Prometheus data source.                                                                            |
| _User_          | User name for basic authentication.                                                                                                   |
| _Password_      | Password for basic authentication.                                                                                                    |

## Query traces

> Querying and displaying traces from Jaeger is available via [Explore]({{< relref "../explore" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can query and display traces from Jaeger via [Explore]({{< relref "../explore" >}}).
```

Reviewer: Btw, this link will not work. The Explore topic is actually _index.md.

Author: Did something change? Because I copied it from Loki page https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/0e53b153758f5a4de3c4ec313f91e9ed36eb58a5/docs/sources/features/datasources/loki.md#L21 where it seems to work.

+++
title = "Using Jaeger in Grafana"
description = "Guide for using Jaeger in Grafana"
keywords = ["grafana", "jaeger", "guide", "tracing"]
type = "docs"
aliases = ["/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/jeager"]
[menu.docs]
name = "Jaeger"
parent = "datasources"
weight = 2
+++

# Using Jager in Grafana

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jaeger data source
```

> Grafana ships with built-in support for Jaeger, open source, end-to-end distributed tracing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana ships with built-in support for Jaeger, which provides open source, end-to-end distributed tracing.
```

Author: `Jaeger, open source, end-to-end distributed tracing` is official short description for Jaeger so I sort of though it appropriate here.

Reviewer: Well, their official description is not a sentence.

Just add it as a data source and you are ready to query your traces in [Explore]({{< relref "../explore" >}}).

> ## Adding the data source

Reviewer: Change the top portion of this topic to match what is in Prometheus: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/features/datasources/prometheus/

All you need is a link to **Add a data source**, instructions for accessing Jaeger settings, and the table with the settings.

Btw, please add ALL the Jaeger settings and their descriptions to the table, not just these three.

2. In the side menu under the `Configuration` link you should find a link named `Data Sources`.
3. Click the `Add data source` button at the top.
4. Select `Loki` from the list of data sources.

> Note: If you're not seeing the `Data Sources` link in your side menu it means that your current user does not have the `Admin` role for the current organization.

| Name            | Description                                                                                                                                   |
| --------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| _Name_          | The data source name. This is how you refer to the data source in panels, queries, and Explore.                                                 |
| _Default_       | Default data source means that it will be pre-selected for new panels.                                                                         |
| _URL_           | The URL of the Jaeger instance, e.g., `http://localhost:16686`                                                                                   |

> ## Querying traces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Query traces
```

Querying and displaying traces from Jaeger is available via [Explore]({{< relref "../explore" >}}).

> Jaeger query editor allows you to query by trace ID directly or selecting a trace from trace selector. To query by trace ID insert the ID into the text input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Jaeger query editor allows you to query by trace ID directly or selecting a trace from trace selector. To query by trace ID, insert the ID into the text input.
```

TODO: screenshot query editor with trace ID filled in

Use the trace selector to pick particular trace from all traces logged in the time range you have selected in Explore. The trace selector has three levels of nesting:
1. The service you are interested in.
1. Particular operation is part of the selected service
1. Specific trace in which the selected operation occurred, represented by the root operation name and trace duration.

TODO: screenshot trace selector opened up

> ## Links

Reviewer: Please give this a more descriptive heading. Imagine you want to link to Jaeger trace from logs in Loki. You seach the documentation, and you see a heading. "Links" does not tell you enough. Perhaps Link to Jaeger? Link Loki to Jaeger?

Also, consider adding actual instructions for that here.

Author: I updated the header not sure about the instructions though. The config is a Loki thing and I would rather not duplicate the instructions here as they are a bit complex. Also the linking can be done from something else than Loki (in the future) where the instructions will again be dependent on the other data source and can be different from Loki.
